Thesis Fast fashion, a term coined in the 1990s, represented a significant shift in fashion production and retail, emphasizing the rapid manufacture of highly affordable, trend-driven clothing. Pioneered by brands like Zara, fast fashion retailers abandoned traditional fashion seasons in favor of regular releases of low-cost clothing, getting consumers hooked on an endless “cycle of novelty”. By 2019, the average lead times for clothing production had decreased to just 60 days, and US shoppers were buying five times more clothing than they did in the 1980s. The global fast fashion market was valued at $123 billion in 2023, with the average woman in the US spending $545 on clothing each year as of July 2022. At the same time, the growth of ecommerce has radically changed shopping     habits, with the rise of giants like Amazon changing the way people buy and sell     goods. In 2023, an estimated 2.6 billion consumers will have completed at least one purchase online. US ecommerce sales surged from $571.2 billion in 2019 to     $815.4 billion in 2020 and will total $1.1 trillion in 2023. Customer discovery has     shifted to social platforms like TikTok and Instagram, with 67% of consumers in     2023 having bought products through social media.     SHEIN is a global online retail company specializing in fast fashion. Operating     primarily through its digital platform, it offers an extensive range of clothing and fashion accessories and leverages its proprietary technology and network of     manufacturers to quickly respond to the latest trends and fulfill consumer     demand. Beyond apparel, SHEIN has launched a two-sided marketplace,     expanding its product range to include other categories like home decor and     electronics, catering to a global customer base. SHEIN’s platform and effective use of digital marketing channels position it as a key player in fast fashion and     ecommerce. Founding Story     There are conflicting reports on SHEIN’s origins. Although it was formally     founded in 2012, the company’s history goes back to a small ecommerce shop     named Nanjing Dianwei Information Technology (NDIT) launched in 2008 by     entrepreneur Chris Xu (CEO), his ex-colleague Wang Xiaohu, and a business     partner and part-time consultant named Li Peng. Little is known about the     founding team, but reports describe Xu as a hardworking “SEO whiz” who     focused on technical matters and left business development, finance, and other     more corporate functions to Xiaohu and Peng. Though some sources describe     Xu as a Chinese-American who studied at George Washington University, SHEIN     disputes this, arguing he was born and raised in China.     Working out of a cramped office in Nanjing, China, the trio experimented with     selling different products, tested distribution strategies, and began perfecting the high-volume, low-margin model that would eventually     become SHEIN’s trademark. Xiaohu said that NDIT explored clothing and fashion,     reasoning that a Chinese company could take advantage of local manufacturing     in much the same way as Western brands did.     In 2012, things took a turn. According to Xiaohu and Peng, Xu abruptly shuttered     NDIT and forced his two co-founders out, pivoting to a wedding dress retailer Xu     named SheInside.com. The website initially operated like many Chinese     ecommerce retailers. It sourced product from wholesale garment markets in the     city of Guangzhou, and played no role in design or manufacturing.     In 2014, the company began transforming itself into a vertically integrated     retailer which did more than just ship product from wholesalers to end     customers. That year, it purchased rival online Chinese retailer Romwe. It also     expanded its presence to European markets like Spain and Germany.     By 2015, Xu had rebranded the company officially to SHEIN, raised more     than $50 million in financing, and built a network of thousands of manufacturers     across China. By 2016, SHEIN had a team of 800+ designers and prototypers,     and claimed to no longer work with suppliers which produced “mediocre-quality”     products and images. SHEIN made a push into the US market in 2017, advertising     on daytime television and partnering with fashion influencers.     Despite his company’s success, CEO Chris Xu has remained largely out of     the spotlight, maintaining anonymity despite his status as one of China’s richest     men.     Product SHEIN is a global online retailer best known for its extensive range of fashionable,     affordable clothing and accessories. It operates as a two-sided marketplace  linking 6K+ manufacturers of clothing and other physical goods with consumer     demand around the world. Low-priced fashion under private labels like Romwe     has long been SHEIN’s focus, but the company has expanded horizontally into  electronics, decor, appliances, and other categories as well. Through its website  and mobile app, SHEIN’s users can browse and purchase a frequently updated selection of nearly 600K items at low prices.     Backed by marketing campaigns and internal management software that analyzes consumer behavior in real-time, SHEIN “algorithmically” feeds products     to users, adding up to 10K individual items and styles to its platform every day.     By closely collaborating with its network of small and medium-sized     manufacturing partners, largely located in China, SHEIN can iterate through     production cycles in a matter of days, rapidly reacting to shifting trends and     shipping items directly from its network of suppliers.     Crucial to SHEIN’s operation is its large-scale automated test and reorder (LATR)     system. The system identifies a trendy design, commissions a small order from     one of its partnered factories — typically 50-100 units per day — and then ramps     up quantity if that style proves to be popular. As a result, SHEIN’s inventory     turnover sits at just 47 days. To help streamline delivery, SHEIN invests in     distribution centers globally and partners with last-mile services like UniUni. The     prices of clothing sold on SHEIN, according to one 2022 estimate, are 39-60%     cheaper than clothing from competitor H&M.     Third-Party Marketplace     To complement its core vertically-integrated retail offering, SHEIN launched an     integrated marketplace in June 2023 which sells items from third-party brands  like New Balance alongside the company’s existing private labels. For consumers,     the new marketplace means a wider selection of products, including name     brands that they may already be familiar with. For third-party sellers, besides     access to SHEIN’s user base, the new offering provides real-time data analytics,     product fulfillment tools, marketing exposure, and training and incentives programs. For SHEIN, the marketplace creates the opportunity to expand inventory and create revenue without requiring as much investment as its first-party sales. As     of November 2023, SHEIN offers an extensive range of product verticals on its     website, both from its inventory and its seller marketplace. The products it lists can be divided into three broad categories: fashion, home and living, and     electronics.                                     
Since SHEIN’s inception, clothing and fashion have been central to its offering. As of November 2023, SHEIN’s official vision is to to “bring fashion into the modern era”, and to that end, the company uses its vertically-integrated supply chain and growing network of third-party brands to sell a wide range of inexpensive shirts, dresses, shoes, jewelry, accessories, and other fashion items. Low-priced     women’s clothing dominated SHEIN’s sales as of November 2023, but the     company has ventured into men’s and kid’s apparel and also began moving     upmarket in 2021, investing heavily in its premium private label  MOTF, signing deals with designer brands, and encouraging local designers and  artists to sell on its platform.     SHEIN’s grip on the fashion market is made possible through a sales, marketing,  and data analytics pipeline that enables the company to keep pace with shifting trends. Crucial to this effort is SHEIN’s social media presence. It has millions of     followers across major platforms like TikTok and Instagram and deals with     influencers and celebrities like Katy Perry.     To meet growing customer demand for products “that go beyond fashion and     apparel”, home goods has become a near-term priority for SHEIN with the 2023     launch of its marketplace. The company has quickly established a foothold in the     space, selling a wide range of decor, furniture, lighting, tools, utensils, and other     household items and even leaping appliances and smart home devices in 2023.     Unlike its core fashion offering, SHEIN relies on an array of third-party brands to     fulfill many of these orders.     Electronics  As SHEIN continued to expand horizontally, electronics became another area of     emphasis for the company. Under this category, SHEIN sells cameras, phones,     computers, speakers, and many other hardware products and accessories. These     products are sourced from third-party brands like Oscal and TCL and are sold at very low prices. Major Chinese sellers like electric toothbrush maker Fairywill and     consumer electronics brand Aukey, both of which were banned from Amazon in     2021 for review manipulation, also sell via SHEIN’s platform.     Market     Customer     Despite being originally founded in China and relying largely on Chinese suppliers     and manufacturers, SHEIN has a minimal consumer presence in the country.     Instead, the company’s primary target market is Gen Z and millennial consumers     in regions including the US, Europe, the Middle East, Latin America, and Australia     who regularly shop online.   
 With its roots in women’s fashion, SHEIN’s typical customers are women in their     twenties, but the company is increasingly catering to men, children, and older     women as it expands its selection of products. Generally, SHEIN’s users prioritize     access to a wide selection of highly fashionable goods more than the average     shopper. A June 2023 report found that the average SHEIN customer is female,     earns $65K in annual income, and reported spending $100 per month on     women's clothing.     As part of its push to become a more fully-featured marketplace, SHEIN also sells     products from third-party brands and designers, appealing to customers with an     interest in major labels. In that capacity, the company is targeting a wide range of     merchants — from smaller sellers like Cape Robbin to global giants like Skechers     and Lenovo and high-end fashion labels like Paul Smith and Stuart Weitzman.     Gen Z customers will continue to drive much of the company’s momentum, but     SHEIN is diversifying its core customer base via its expanded range of     merchandise.     Market Size     In the US alone, fast fashion – the high-volume, low-priced retail model pioneered     in the 1990s – is a $100 billion industry and is expected to grow to $167.5 billion by 2030, representing a CAGR of 7.7%. Social commerce reached an estimated     $992 billion in global sales in 2022 and is projected to grow to more than $2     trillion by 2025. While ecommerce as a whole has slipped slightly since the end of     the COVID-19 pandemic, online retail sales still grew nearly 10% YoY to $5.7     trillion globally in 2022. Even as growth slows from its peak, retail ecommerce     sales are projected to grow to $8.1 trillion by 2026.     Adding to this is the fact that consumer expectations globally are shifting     towards convenient, one-stop-shop purchasing experiences like SHEIN. As of     2022, 66% of consumers preferred online marketplaces over traditional retailer     sites, and B2C marketplaces are projected to facilitate $2.1 trillion in sales by     2024. Temu: Temu, launched in September 2022, is SHEIN’s strongest challenger in     low-priced ecommerce. While still new, Temu has rapidly gained traction in     Western markets and has consistently been one of the most downloaded apps in     the US since its launch. By September 2023, a year after its launch, Temu had 61     million monthly active users in the US. Fully owned by Chinese ecommerce giant     PDD Holdings, the company’s growth has come at a cost: it is reportedly burning     at least $600 million per year in growth through promotions and advertising as     of 2023.     Unlike SHEIN’s vertically integrated supply chain, Temu is solely an asset-light     marketplace for third-party brands that handle their own distribution.     Nevertheless, SHEIN and Temu have increasingly come into conflict, a rivalry that     boiled over into an exchange of lawsuits in 2023, with Temu alleging that SHEIN     engaged in anticompetitive behavior. PDD Holdings traded at a market cap of     $146.5 billion in November 2023. Specific revenues for Temu are unknown, but it     was estimated in August 2023 that it represented less than 1% of PDD’s total     sales in the second quarter of that year.     Fashion Nova: Fashion Nova is a US-based online fashion platform. Founded     in 2006 as a brick-and-mortar retailer, the company pivoted into online sales     in 2013 when its founder, Richard Saghian, noticed growing opportunities in     ecommerce. Leaning on a modern marketing strategy centered around     celebrities and influencers like Cardi B, Fashion Nova built its brand in women’s     fashion but has since expanded into men’s clothing, children’s clothing, and     beauty products, selling a wide array of private label goods. The company     reportedly generated over $1 billion in annual sales as of March 2022.     Omnichannel Retailers     H&M: H&M, founded in 1947 in Sweden, is a clothing and apparel retailer. One of     the early pioneers of fast fashion, H&M leverages an omnichannel approach,     generating the bulk of its revenue from its network of brick-and-mortar stores     while also online sales through its app and website. The company operates in the     US, Europe, and a handful of other markets around the world, selling mostly     private-label goods to budget-conscious consumers.  Despite its global scale, H&M lags behind SHEIN in fast fashion sales. H&M     controlled 16% of the fast fashion market in the US in November 2022, behind     SHEIN’s 50%, and its $24.9 billion market cap as of November 2023 is approximately a third of SHEIN’s 2023 private valuation of $66 billion. The     company has sought to become more competitive in the space, launching a     marketplace for third-party brands in 2023 and investing in partnerships with  designers and more premium brands. H&M sued SHEIN for copyright     infringement in July 2023.     Zara: Zara, founded in 1975, is a global fashion brand. Operating through its     online platform and its network of 3K+ stores around the world, the Spanish     company — owned and operated by fast fashion conglomerate Inditex —     helped spark the movement in the 1990s. Unlike its peers, Zara     has remained upmarket, selling more premium, higher-cost products and largely     avoiding any deep with third-party brands. While its top-line growth is not as     great, Inditex has historically outpaced SHEIN in terms of total revenue,     generating close to $8 billion in the second quarter of 2023 alone. Inditex’s net     profit margins are higher, at 13% to SHEIN’s 3.5%. Inditex, which also owns brands     like Bershka, Massimo Dutti, and Stradivarius, traded at a market cap of $108.7     billion in November 2023.     Global Marketplaces     Amazon: Amazon, founded in 1994, is an online retailer and technology company.     SHEIN’s push into becoming a broader ecommerce marketplace has brought it     into direct competition with Amazon, which was estimated to account for     nearly 33% of the online apparel and accessories market in the US and close     to $70 billion in annual sales. Like SHEIN, Amazon sells private label products,     largely through its Amazon Basics brand, but the company’s third-party     marketplace is its primary growth engine. Amazon’s main differentiator is its     convenience and speedy delivery. Whereas a shipment from SHEIN can take up     to several weeks, Amazon can fulfill orders in as little as one or two days. Amazon     traded at a market cap of $1.5 trillion in November 2023. TikTok Shop: TikTok, launched in 2018 by Chinese technology company     ByteDance, is a social media platform known for its short-form video content.     The platform has been expanding into ecommerce, launching TikTok Shop in     September 2023 in the US. TikTok Shop provides an integrated shopping     experience for the platform’s over 150 million active users. Through the     company’s mobile app, users can browse thousands of products, sort through     recommendations, and even buy items directly in videos and livestreams. For     merchants, brands, and creators, TikTok offers advertising, marketing, checkout,     and logistics solutions, among other tools.     While products from third-party brands dominate the platform, TikTok has     also experimented with selling private label goods from a subsidiary of its parent     company ByteDance, a more vertically integrated model that brings the platform     into closer competition with SHEIN. Much like SHEIN, TikTok has faced     significant pressure over its ties with China, with some lawmakers seeking to ban     the app outright in the US. ByteDance is a private company and was valued at     $231 billion via secondary market sales as of November 2023.     Business Model     SHEIN's business model revolves around an ultra-fast fashion approach,     leveraging a highly responsive supply chain to quickly produce and distribute     trendy, affordable clothing. In parallel, its ecommerce marketplace offers a less     operationally intensive platform where third-party sellers     SHEIN’s core fashion offering emphasizes rapid production cycles and a massive     inventory, offering a wide variety of products and styles that are frequently     updated to keep pace with the latest trends in fashion and consumer products.     The company sells low-margin products at an average price of close to $8, per     2021 estimates, all largely sourced and shipped through a vertically integrated     network of factories and distribution centers.     SHEIN’s net margin on fashion products it sells via its network of partnered     manufacturers was reportedly 3.5% in 2022. For its newer marketplace offering, it     was reported in July 2023 that SHEIN was pitching a 5-10% take rate to     prospective sellers. This was an effort to court sellers away from Amazon, which took a cut of 15-17% on goods sold via its platform as of July 2023. It is not     known how long this aggressive fee structure might remain in place.     SHEIN’s model also relies on strong import tax minimization. Whereas     competitors like H&M pay millions in import and export duties every year, SHEIN’s     products are shipped and delivered tariff-free. Taxes on the company’s exports     are waived per a rule adopted by the Chinese government for D2C brands like     SHEIN in 2018. With imports, the company has taken advantage of a decades-     old loophole in the US that exempts packages valued up to $800 from taxes as     long as they're addressed and shipped to individuals. Traditional retailers     typically import their merchandise in bulk and then package and deliver to     customers, but SHEIN’s products are individually packaged from the factory.     Traction     Since its founding, SHEIN has developed a significant presence in fashion     retailing and ecommerce. By 2019, the company had surpassed an estimated $4     billion in annual sales. The COVID-19 pandemic and its associated consumer     shopping trends were a major accelerant for the company, which saw its sales     jump nearly 250% YoY to $10 billion in 2020.     The company has maintained momentum in the years since, recording a     reported $16 billion and $22.7 billion in revenue in 2021 and 2022, respectively.     SHEIN has also achieved profitability, earning a reported $800 million in net     income in 2022. However, the profit margin of 3.5% it achieved was narrow —     significantly lower than the 11% margin of Inditex, which owns competitor Zara.     The company’s leadership said in a 2023 investor presentation that it expects     revenue will reach $58.5 billion in 2025.     SHEIN has also become an impactful cultural phenomenon. It was the most     downloaded shopping app in 2022 and is the most followed fashion retailer on     TikTok. It was also the most searched fashion brand worldwide in 2022. The     company employs the help of a large number of celebrities, influencers, and     users who share their SHEIN purchases on social media, using hashtags like     #SHEINHaul, which boasted 13.7 billion video views on TikTok alone as of     November 2023. https://research.contrary.com/reports/shein                                                       13/18 
Valuation SHEIN raised $2 billion at a $66 billion valuation in May 2023, bringing its total     funding to $4.1 billion. The company’s cap table includes investors like Sequoia     Capital China, General Atlantic, and Tiger Global. While still one of the     world’s most valuable private companies, SHEIN has seen its valuation reduced     by a third since its previous raise in April 2022, when it was valued at $100 billion.     SHEIN’s sliding valuation comes amid fading investor interest and significant     macroeconomic headwinds. Compared to $12.6 billion in capital poured into the     ecommerce space in 2021, 2022 saw just $8.8 billion.     Assuming the May 2023 valuation of $66 billion and SHEIN’s internally projected     2023 revenue of approximately $33 billion, this would put the company at                    
revenue multiple for that year. For comparison, comparable public stocks Inditex     and H&M trade at similar multiples of 1.3-3x.     Source: Koyfin     Key Opportunities     Further Partnerships     Partnerships are a major avenue of growth for SHEIN and other fast fashion     brands. To help bolster its omnichannel capabilities, SHEIN has already teamed     up with Forever 21 to get access to the latter’s network of retail locations. To     streamline fulfillment, SHEIN has partnered with last-mile delivery startup UniUni.     Co-branded deals have also been a strong lever for the company. for example,     it joined with Warner Brothers to sell chocolate-themed beauty products to     promote the studio’s Willy Wonka brand. Using its large user base as currency,     SHEIN can effectively fill gaps in distribution, technology, brand, and other     functions with strategic partnerships.            
 SHEIN continues to move into new geographies and product verticals. For     example, in an attempt to diversify its China-centric operations, the company     is investing in warehouses and factories in the US, Canada, Poland, and countless     other markets, and in 2023 the company announced a $150 million investment in     Latin America, establishing Brazil as its manufacturing and distribution hub for     the region. It has similar ambitions for Mexico and other developing countries     and plans to roll out its integrated marketplace in countries around the world.     On the product side, SHEIN is expanding beyond fashion and apparel. Appliances     and other home goods are the near-term priorities, but electronics, food, and     groceries are all potential channels for growth as well. It will face significant     competition in these verticals from competitors like Amazon and Temu, but  SHEIN’s large user base creates a significant cross-selling opportunity.     Omnichannel Shopping     Long a digital-only brand, SHEIN has yet to fully tap into omnichannel shopping     experiences. Consumers began returning to in-store shopping in 2023, and     competitors like H&M and Zara have effectively used brick-and-mortar stores to     better engage their customers, increase basket sizes, and improve brand     awareness. SHEIN began exploring this opportunity in 2023, hosting pop-up     stores across the US as part of its marketplace rollout. Additionally, the     company’s partnership with Forever 21 will allow it to open physical spaces within     Forever 21 stores. As of August 2023, the company insisted it would remain     digital-first and had no plans to open permanent physical locations, but hybrid     shopping experiences could be an effective extension of the SHEIN brand.     Key Risks     Changing Consumer Preferences     While SHEIN capitalized on consumers prioritizing shopping convenience     through the COVID-19 pandemic, these preferences are yet to prove themselves     permanent. Discretionary spending slowed in 2022 and 2023, causing many of     SHEIN’s penny-pinching customers to pull back on buying items. Additionally,     preferences around shopping experiences are changing dramatically. Consumers     